let's now go back to the ground in Gaza
now where Israeli strikes as you've been
hearing have intensified 300
Palestinians have been killed in the
past 24 hours I'm joined Now by James
Elder he's unicef's Global spokesperson
he's currently in conun in the southern
part of the Gaza Strip James I
understand you've been traveling around
the strip both in the North and the
South can you tell us what you've
seen I tell you what I've seen in the
last hour here at Nasa Hospital hospital
is is death and destruction the hospital
it's it's Panic uh because everywhere
you turn there are children with third
degree burns with shrapnel with brain
injuries with broken bones there are
mothers crying over children who look
like they are hours away from Death
there are medical workers who who run
from wounded child to wounded child
there are bombs that have been that have
been Relentless this is a hospital it's
it's it seems like a death zone right
now James we know that the hospital
situation has been dire all across the
strip what sort of Aid is getting in at
the moment you're talking about people
being crammed in there are they
receiving any supplies to
help there is no way you can say that
the aid getting in is a meaningful
amount it's simply not possible under
this level of bombardment no Aid today
able to go to the to the north you know
UNICEF wh onra getting Aid to the North
over the past days that hasn't happened
food water food water medicine is what
we keep trying to do and continue to try
to do that but the the the amount that
is required is not possibly enough and
that then speaks to the second threat
that these people are facing and that is
one of disease I talk to doctors all the
time that the bombardments are a very
real threat to children they are killing
children pretty much as you and I speak
the secondary one now is disease we risk
seeing just as many children and and I
shuted to say that die from a lack of
water a lack of protection a lack of
Sanitation on the ground that is the
reality just in this hospital now as I
walked around and had people grabbing
onto me saying please stop the War I had
children holding my hand with empty
bottles of water in a hospital seeking
water that's the level of desperation
and we are well aware it's what needs to
be met for that to happen how about they
stop sending in rockets and allow us to
send in supp
Li well let me ask you about something
else that's compounding the situation
there James we've been hearing about
these leaflets being dropped in kanun
people who've been ordered to move being
ordered to move yet again so many
observers have been talking about how
part of Israel's strategy is forcing
people from their homes forcing these
families with their children to be
mobile what has that done to the social
fabric
there smashing it smashing a beautiful
society that is utterly rich in warmth
and
generosity and culture it is it is being
smashed it is it is like they're playing
a game of chest and moving people from
place to place it's not a game and it's
ending in massive numbers of children
being killed these so-called safe zones
this is a very important false narrative
that is being shared these so-called
safe zones are moving people to Tiny
pockets of land that is stand where
there is no water there is no sanitation
there is no protection from the elements
these are not safe zones these will be
zones of death they are not scientific
they are not rational and they are not
possible and I think that those people
who are calling these safe zones are
well aware of that it is callous and
cold it is calculating and we need to
call it for what it is otherwise we are
going to see an addition to the
thousands and thousands of boys and
girls who've been killed the hundreds
here now screaming with wounds of War
we're going to see the same numbers now
killed by disease James you've been
talking to children in the hospitals
there playing with them during the
ceasefire when there was a brief moment
of respite what have the children been
telling
you what two two one one thing I really
noticed today I hadn't been here
yesterday just in 36 hours the Panic
levels have multiplied yeah many more
people crying many more children now
just just just shaking holding my hand
but not in the same way not to play but
just to hold to hold someone again this
can can you be safe so when I talk to
them they line is simply again stop the
war take us somewhere safe as a little
boy said to me there please where is
safe tell me where is safe now what to
tell him that it's this false narrative
I can't I can't tell him that these
creation of safe zones are death zones
so you now see the fear and the trauma
we talk so much of trauma that is taking
root in this entire generation and all
you need to do is to walk around and see
those children as they shudder from the
bombs as they look to their brother
who's lost an eye or got horrendous
wounds this is trauma this is what these
children a generation that we probably
haven't seen since the horrors 65 years
ago this generation that offers so so
much the 21-year-old medical student I
spoke to who bought her stethoscope and
her coat and wants to go and be a doctor
but said right now doctors are only
burying people she wants to save people
the young man I met in jabalia who
learned perfect English and electrical
engineering from the internet and build
himself an electric bike and sells good
and repairs people's solar panels for
free this is the youth these are the PE
the children of Gaza who are being
killed this is a generation being
decimated in body and in mind James I
can hear the anger and the frustration
when when you talk to me from there I
understand you're a father yourself can
I ask how what you've seen there in the
Gaza Strip how has that affected you as
a
parent every story here any any person
not for me just as a parent any decent
person will have their heart broken into
pieces by the stories of children
because everywhere you turn they have
them and because they're so articulate
because the literacy rate here is so
high so you combine a child or a Young
Person's you know big heart with a
beautiful brain and they can articulate
how their dreams are being crushed very
clearly that is is devastating it to me
it would be embarrassing to speak of my
own feelings here I can leave this place
yeah I can leave they people cannot
leave here they are not they are they
are not safe so and you know for me for
me to talk about my own situ
a let's talk about the 100 United
Nations colleagues I've got the 100
people who more than unra colleagues who
have been killed the largest number of
United Nations workers killed in a war
in the history of the United Nations in
the history of the United Nations in a
seven or eight week period this whole
thing is immoral it will surely be seen
to Illegal it be illegal it is as I walk
around there now it is a blood bath I
feel these safe zones are trying to
prepare a narrative for continued
massacres of children silence is
complicity we have to know that there
must be some people who have sway here
they need to know their silence is
complicity so yeah for me and I'm I'm
sorry that my my my voice and emotions
um probably mean I speak too too quickly
it is it is utterly devastating to see
and as UNICEF we continue to do
everything we possibly can but we know
we know full well until they stop the
bombs there is a futility to that and
that is that is infuriating James Elder
there unicef's global spokesperson
speaking to us from the ground in the
southern Gaza Strip thank you so much
for joining us on Al jazer James and and
sharing your work and your
thoughts